Now, at this point you should be
looking to yourself and saying, like,
this is insanity.
Every time I change program,
I have to change all these values, right?
And so you need a compiler, pretty
quickly you're like, I need a compiler.
And what the compiler allows you
to do is to say things like, hey,
into a0 I wanna load the address
of the data section.
And I'm just gonna put a label
where the data section is, right.
And so when the compiler runs it like
does the math and figures it out and
like yeah that's 37 and
just puts it over there, right.
You don't have to do that because you'll
just go crazy always changing these values
right like imagine every time you add the
feature to the program you have to go back
and like recompute all these
things it's just insanity.
So that's basically the difference
between assembly and machine language,
machine language is just numbers, right?
Assembly are for each number we
look up its corresponding name on
the instruction name of the instruction,
so we say load ae instead of 37.
And instead of random number, it puts an
address, we can put an actual text label
in there, and so we know that if we add
things, shift things around, the compiler
will recompute all these things so
you don't have to worry about it, right?
And it also makes it much easier for you
to read, because now you'll be like, yeah,
so a0 gets the address.
A1 gets zero then we call
the gosubroutine which is the increment.
Then we look at array
location one increment two,
increment three increment halt,
right, much easier to read, right?
Okay, what does the subroutine label do?
Well, the label is increment and
what it does is it reads from the memory.
It increments the value,
stores it back in there.
And by the way, the subroutine
automatically produces the return
instruction and anything else that
you need to kinda not worry about it.
And then you just have your label for
data section and label for Stack.
And you know that things get initialized,
and everything works, right?
This is assembly right here.
A little more complicated, but
fundamentally that's what it's.
Okay, let's implement Fibonacci.
So the way Fibonacci works is again,
we have to load the data location at zero,
and we call the Fibonacci.
Go to the subroutine Fibonacci and
then we store the result inside
of location one and so
what is that location zero.
So location zero is four so we're asking
for the fourth Fibonacci number, right.
Okay, so how does it work?
The subroutine has a label notice.
We save, say, save R1, meaning that in the
process of executing this particular code,
we're gonna destroy the value of R1.
What it means is that we are gonna
have to push R1 on a stack.
The way this works is
you push R1 on a stack,
then you do whatever set
of instructions you want.
And then on the end of it,
you pop it out of the stack, right?
So the stack not only can store
your program counter information,
it can also store arbitrary data,
including local variables that but
that's an advanced concept that we
haven't we're not getting into yet.
And so this is an example of
calling convention, right.
We have a deal that when I call a
subroutine and when I come back out of it
the R1 is going to have the parameter
I'm passing in or the result value.
So the R1 is used both as an input and
an output.
Sorry, R0, not R1.
And I really don't want you to
mess with R1, that is not for you.
So if you need to use R1 for some
internal things, make sure you save it so
that it's available later.
And then we can do
a comparator instruction.
Now remember, at the beginning I said
the R0 is little special because
when you write into the R0 you set flags.
And so what set flags operation does
is it says there is a set of bits and
says if the value you set is zero, then
we'll set a bit if the value is negative,
then we'll set a bid if its value
is positive, we set a bid, right?
And what that allows you to do,
is to run a compare instruction.
And what compare instruction basically is,
a subtraction where you
throw away the result.
And so you compare it to zero, in other
words, you subtract it from zero, and
the only time that it's zero is
if it's the same number, right?
And if you get a negative number,
then you know you're less than.
If you get a positive then
you're greater than etc.
And this is basically how
you do an if statement.
So you do a subtraction
which sets a set of flags.
And then based on
the flags you have special
instructions that basically say jump.
So, the way that works is that you run
your expression which modifies the flags.
Then you wanna run your condition
in this particular case,
it is jump if less than or equal to.
And then the condition then
has to have a label of where
you wanna go to the then location.
So you have to have a label for then and
you have to have a label for end and
so now this if condition either ends
up in this location or this location.
And then, obviously, if you end up in the
else, then you have to jump out of it so
you don't double run the end of it, so you
have to have a label end in here as well.
So you can see how an if statement is
actually a bunch of jumps that happen in
order to kind of figure out
what's going on for the CPU.
Does that make sense, or was it too fast?
>> A little fast.
>> A little fast, okay, so
basically you run an expression in.
So let me just actually do
this next to each other.
You run a comparator expression which
basically is just a subtraction.
And the side effect of subtraction is that
you set flags in the flags register, okay.
These flags are things like,
is it zero, is it a positive number,
is it a negative number,
was it an overflow, is it a carryover,
like there's a bunch of different
flags that exist in the system.
So this instruction that you run, so R0
is special that whatever value you write
into R0, again,
depends on architecture but
typically R0 is zero special that it
ends up affecting the flags register.
So by subtracting the R0
from some number unit,
we can then see if that number was bigger,
smaller equal to whatever, right?
And so now based on that you
wanna do a conditional jump.
In other words, you wanna modify the
programme counter to some other address,
but only if as positive or
negative or equal to, right?
And so this is the conditional jump that
says hey jump but only if this was true.
If it was not true then don't jump, right?
So right after the condition you have to
give it an address of where exactly you
should be jumping, so
you make a branch, right?
You're either gonna jump or
you're not gonna jump.
And jump is just like I'm either gonna
update the program counter or not, right?
It's all it is.
So in this case,
if I don't update the program counter and
I'm running the else branch,
which means there's a set of instructions
that that deal with the else work.
And when the else work is done because
the else work is followed by the then
work I gotta jump over that, right?
So I have to have non conditional jump
like I always have to jump over that
because I'm into it I have to end up here,
right?
I have to end up at the label end so
if I did jump to the then section then
I can just continue running through.
If I ended up in the else section
then I have to jump out of it,
jump over the then section
to end up in here.
This is pretty low level, right?
This is not how you normally think
about your if conditions, right?
It's just a block, you put curlies.
But those curlies somehow have to
translate into all of this on the end of
the day.
Okay, so what this basically says
that if you have, if the value of R0,
which is the argument into
the Fibonacci sequence is 0,
then load the result to be 0,
and because it's a then,
it just falls through and
exits the thing, right?
So Fibonacci sequence of 0 is 0.
Pibonacci sequence of 1 is 1.
So you load the result into R0 and
then you exit the subroutine, right?
So now R0 will contain the result value,
either 0 or
1 depending on whether it's 0 or 1, okay.
Otherwise, what we're gonna do is
we're gonna decrement R0, because
the Fibonacci sequence is the sum of the
previous two numbers in sequences, right?
By the way, did you hear about
the Fibonacci conference?
It was as big as the last
two put together.
So you decrement R0, right, and
then you make a copy of R0 to
put it in the R1, register.
But now we're using R1 register,
this is the reason why we had to save it.
Because if we didn't save it, then the
program that called us would be like, hey,
you changed my value,
that's no good, right?
So we had to save it at the beginning.
So we make a copy of the value
inside R1 register and
then we recursively call ourselves, right?
So, it goes up to ourselves so
that we can compute the result and
now we know that the result
is gonna be in R0, okay?
Now, we need to save R0,
so we push it on a stack.
And now we can take the R1 and
put it back into R0,
decrement it one more time, and
now call ourselves again, and
now we have the result again in R0,
and we move it from R0 to R1.
And then maybe restore the R0 we had
over here, we pop it from the stack.
So, now the R0 will contain
the Fibonacci of x-1.
And now,
the R1 contains the Fibonacci of x-2.
We add them together.
And now, the R0 contains
the Fibonacci sequence that we want.
So, we can execute this.
And you can see that you can see that
it recuses quite a lot internally
because we all know that Fibonacci
is quite a recursive etc.
And you can also see that at
the beginning we started with
four is our kind of the initial value
we were interested in to compute.
And then by the time we're done,
you see the answer three is in here.
But notice what's in the back of here,
there's a bunch of garbage that ended
up in here see all this stuff here.
That's a leftover stuff of our stack
because when we push things on a stack,
we wrote into memory.
But when you pop things out,
we didn't bother clean up,
because that's just extra work,
why would you do that?
And so now there is potentially
dangerous information in there.
Let's say somebody pushed
a private key onto a stack.
And now that memory in one program shuts
down and you start up another program and
now the program gets that memory.
So part of the job of the operating system
is to clear that memory to make sure like,
there is nothing there
when it gives it to you,
because you could like accidentally
read somebody else's stuff.
And you can also see how the stack
has kind of grown backwards, right,
in towards the data, but
hopefully we had enough space.
So if I go here and
just modify where is my number here.
So five so that's the input
this is the result, right,
if I just modify it to five and
I rerun it now you can see that and
five is funny because five of the answer
is 5 and 4 of the answer is 4, okay, 6.
6, the answer is 8, right?
So now, you can see that it's
computing the other numbers, and
you can see just how expensive it
was in terms of computation, right?
It's quite a lot of stuff
that happened inside of it.
And notice,
the bigger the number you choose,
the further the stack has grown into you,
right?
And so at some point, the stack is so
big that it will collide with you.
And so that's why you have to have
extra stuff in there, inside of it.
Okay, so this was kind of the main
thing of like showing you
how a physical CPU works.
And I'm kind of hoping that
at this point you kinda
have a good idea of how things
work on the silicon level, right?
What actually is happening under the hood?
>> When numbers are stored in
the registers, there'll be.
>> Yes.
>> Binary,
when they do addition or subtraction,
whatever remember this one to
do with like two's complement?
>> Yes.
>> In a different way, doesn't it?
>> So the crazy thing is that
CPUs do not know how to subtract.
Crazy, right,
they can only add negative numbers.
And the negative numbers are represented
in something called two's complement.
And basically it's a negative number I
believe don't quote me it's been years but
I believe you just take the value of the
positive number, you flip all the bits so
one becomes 00 becomes 1 and
then you add 1 to it into it.
And for some strange reason,
that particular optimization
is called two's complement.
And the two's complement has this nice
property that if you add it to a number,
you've effectively done a subtraction.
>> So would you have one register,
basically save for just subtraction.
>> No, the CPU has no instruction for
subtraction.
I mean, maybe the modern CPUs have for
convenience or whatever, but
fundamentally, CPUs do not
understand subtraction.
All they understand is
adding two's complement.
>> Yeah.
>> So the compiler will typically take
your number and convert it into
a two's complement version, and
then it will just add it.
And so that's the subtraction.
So if you say A minus B, it loads B
runs a two's complement operation on it,
and then just says go and add.
And so that's what I mean, like modern
CPUs might have a convenience instruction
that internally automatically combines
two's complement in addition,
but in terms of the hardware
that does the computation,
the arithmetic logic unit only
knows how to do additions.